---
title: "Advent of code 2015: Day 1"
description: advent11.jpg
tags: ["Santa Claus was hoping for a white Christmas, but his weather machine's “snow” function is powered by the stars, and he's just out! To save Christmas, he needs you to collect fifty stars by December 25th."]
---

# Part 1

Santa Claus was hoping for a white Christmas, but his weather machine's “snow” function is powered by the stars, and he's just out! To save Christmas, he needs you to collect fifty stars by December 25th.

Collect stars by helping Santa Claus solve puzzles. Two puzzles will be made available each day in the Advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when you complete the first one. Each puzzle awards a star. Good luck!

Here is an easy puzzle to warm you up.

Santa is trying to deliver gifts to a tall building, but he can't find the right floor - the directions he's received are a bit confusing. He starts on the ground floor (floor 0) and then follows the instructions one character at a time.

An open parenthesis, `(` means it must go up one floor, and a closing parenthesis `)`, means it must go down one floor.

The apartment building is very high and the basement is very deep; he will never find the upper or lower floors.

For example:

`(())` and `()()` both result in floor `0`. <br />
`(((` and `(()(()(` both result in floor `3`. <br />
`))(((((` also results in floor `3`. <br />
`())` and `))(` both result in floor `-1` (the first basement level). <br />
`)))` and `)())())` both result in floor `-3`. <br />


_To what floor do the instructions take Santa?_ <br />
If you still want to see it, you can get your [puzzle](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/0xEX75/0xEX75.github.io/master/advent1.txt) input.

We know that `(` matches `+ 1` and`) `matches` -1`, we just need to loop and increment that.

```python
#coding:utf-8

import sys
import time

with open(sys.argv[1], "r") as ptr_read:
    ptr_read = ptr_read.read()

ptr_i = 0

for i in ptr_read:
    i = i.rstrip("\n\r")

    if(i == '('):
        ptr_i = ptr_i + 1

    elif(i == ')'):
        ptr_i = ptr_i - 1

print(ptr_i)
```

# Part 2

Now, with the same instructions, find the position of the first character that prompts him to enter the basement (floor -1). The first character of the instructions has position 1, the second character has position 2, and so on.

For example:

`)` causes him to enter the basement at character position `1`. <br />
`()())` causes him to enter the basement at character position `5`. <br />

_What is the position of the character that causes Santa to first enter the basement?_

We always perform the increment on the values ​​and if it drops to `-1`, the program will immediately exit the loop with` break;`. I also create a temporary list because in the loop we need to know where the parentheses stop, so I create a list outside the loop and when it goes into the loop it will add the parentheses with the function `append ()` in the list, and we'll know when it stops when the program hits `-1` and a` break;`.

```python
#coding:utf-8

import sys
import time

with open(sys.argv[1], "r") as ptr_read:
    ptr_read = ptr_read.read()

ptr_i = 0
ptr_l = []

for i in ptr_read:
    i = i.rstrip("\n\r")

    if(i == '('):
        ptr_i = ptr_i + 1

    elif(i == ')'):
        ptr_i = ptr_i - 1

    ptr_l.append(i)

    if(ptr_i == -1):
        break;

print(len(ptr_l))
```

# Conclusion

Here we are, we finally come to the end of this article. Hope this article has taught you some things. It was a very simple and interesting challenge. If you have any questions, I will get back to you.
